Next we're going to get started with Neo4j
by creating our first graph network.
To do this,
first we will review a graphical or
a diagrammatic representation
of a graph network.
Then, we'll introduce you to an equivalent
text representation of that network.
Then, we will build on those text
representations in the form of pseudocode,
with the ultimate goal being
to develop an actual script
to create our network in Neo4j.
Then, we'll go ahead and run the script to
create the network, and we'll explore it,
and confirm it structure and content.
You're looking at a simple graph network,
consisting of five nodes and five edges.
Each node represents a person,
an individual.
And, the edges represent
relationships between those people.
Each node has a number associate with it,
N1 through N5.
And, each edge has a corresponding number
associated with it, E1 through E5.
Edges are relationships such
as Harry is known by Tom,
or Julian is coworker of Harry.
We could have more or less edges, but we
wanted to keep things relatively simple,
while still maintaining
a reasonable degree of complexity.
What we want is a script that we can
process with Neo4j in order to
create an actual graph network.
So, let's look at a text
representation of this network.
So, here we list our five nodes and
five edges, and we're going to begin
the process of extending the text
descriptions of our graph network.
I'm going to scroll down briefly,
and just show you the end result, so
you have a better idea of what
the final goal is going to be.
This is the actual code that we're going
to submit to Neo4j in order to create
our network.
But, we're going to back
up a little bit and
look at some simplified
versions of this syntax, so
we can better understand how simple the
graph network relationships really are.
Here, we list the five nodes and
five edges, as you saw just a moment ago.
And down below,
we have a simple notation structure,
which attempts to describe
the five edge relationships.
The first line represents the edge E1.
We can see that the nodes N1 and
N2 are included,
because Harry is known by Tom, and
Tom is node N1 and Harry is node N2.
The same goes for the second line,
the relationship between Julian and Harry.
Julian is co-worker of Harry, and so on.
So, let's take this a step further
by defining our graph network,
so that each node is
a particular type of node.
In this case, we're going to define a node
type as what we're calling a ToyNode.
As we introduce each node and
its relationship with other nodes,
we'll define the node
to be of type ToyNode.
So, on this first line,
N1 goes through e1 to N2.
And, both of those are introduced for
the first time, so
we'll define them as type ToyNode.
But, on the next line, since we
already introduced N2 as type ToyNode,
we don't need to repeat that statement.
And, so we continue in the same manner
with the remaining edge relationships.
Taking this even further, we'll apply
a similar kind of constraint to our edges.
In this case, we'll define our network
such that each edge is a particular type,
which we're calling ToyRelation.
Next, we're going to add
properties to our nodes and edges.
Our nodes can have properties
such as name or job,
so in this case, our first node,
N1, will have the name Tom.
And, the appropriate syntax for this
includes curly braces surrounding the key
value pairs, a colon separating
the key value pairs, and
the values defined within single quotes.
Likewise, each edge may have
a specific type of relationship,
including co-worker, wife, and friend.
So, finally this brings us to the actual
code we're going to use to create our
graph network.
So, let's go ahead and copy this,
and paste it into Neo4j, so
we can take a look at our network.
Here we are, running Neo4j in our browser.
So, I'm going to paste the code that
I just copied from my text file
into the command line
in the Neo4j interface.
And, I'll click the Play button
to execute those commands, and
we'll see the results returned
in this newly displayed panel.
We can see that we have 5 labels added,
5 nodes were created, 13 properties were
set, 5 relationships were created, and the
entire process required 31 milliseconds.
However, we still can't actually view our
graph unless we issue yet another command.
So, let's shuffle to our text file,
and take a look at that command.
What this command does,
is it tries to identify a match
in which a particular node has
a relationship with any other node.
And, then we'll return those nodes and
relationships.
So, we'll go ahead and copy this, and
we'll paste it in to our command line,
and we'll execute.
And, there's our graph.
When we mouse over the nodes, we can see
information displayed on the bottom.
And, when we select those nodes, that
information is displayed permanently along
the bottom,
likewise with edge relationships.
So, we would expect to see things such
as Michelle is the wife of Harry,
Julian is a co-worker of Harry, and so on.
So, it looks like our network
has been created successfully.
We can also display
information in a tabular format
by clicking the Rows icon on the left.
And, we'll see that this information
is not constrained by the directed
nature of our graph.
For example, we see that Harry
has a relationship with Tom,
in which Harry knows Tom.
But likewise, down here,
Tom has a relationship with Harry,
in which Tom knows Harry.
Next, we're going to learn
how to add to this graph and
modify some of the properties
of the nodes and edges.